§ 81.1 
 
 
 
PART 81--PUBLIC 
AVAILABILITY OF THE 
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY 
OFFICE RECORDS 
 
Sec. 
81.1  Purpose and scope of part. 
81.2  Administration. 
81.3  Definitions. 
81.4  Requests for identifiable records. 
81.5  Records originating outside GAO, 
         records of interviews, or records 
         involving work in progress. 
81.6  Records which may be exempt 
         from disclosure. 
81.7  Fees and charges. 
81.8  Public reading facility. 
 
AUTHORITY:  31 U.S.C. 711. 
 
§ 81.1  Purpose and scope of part. 
    (a) This part implements the policy of 
the U.S. Government Accountability  
Office (GAO) with respect to the public 
availability of GAO records, except as  
set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.  
While GAO is not subject to the Freedom of 
Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), GAO's 
disclosure policy follows the spirit of the act 
consistent with its duties, functions, and 
responsibilities to the Congress.  
Application of this act to GAO is not to be 
inferred from the provisions of these 
regulations. 
    (b) GAO published testimonies,  
reports, decisions, special publications 
or listings of publications are not  
included within the scope of this part.  
These documents may be obtained from 
the GAO Website, http://www.gao.gov,  
or by telephone at 202-512-6000, TDD  
202-512-2537, or 1-866-801-7077 (toll  
free).  These publications may be 
downloaded free of charge from the  
GAO Website.  Paper copies requested 
from GAO are subject to a printing, 
shipping, and handling fee. 
     (c) Requests for all other GAO records 
are within the scope of this part and should 
be submitted to GAO as directed in  
paragraph (a) of § 81.4. [76 FR 12549, Mar. 
8, 2011] 
   
§ 81.2  Administration. 
     GAO’s Chief Quality Officer administers 
this part and may promulgate such 
supplemental rules or regulations as may 
be necessary. 
 
§ 81.3  Definitions. 
     As used in this part: 
     (a) "Identifiable" means a reasonably 
specific description of a particular record 
sought, such as the date of the record, 
subject matter, agency or person involved, 
etc., which will permit location or retrieval of 
the record. 
     (b) "Records" includes all books, 

SUBCHAPTER F--RECORDS 

papers, manuals, maps, photographs, 
reports, and other documentary materials, 
regardless of physical form or 
characteristics, including electronically 
created or maintained materials, under the 
control of GAO in pursuance of law or in 
connection with the transaction of public 
business.  As used in this part, the term 
“records” is limited to an existing record 
under GAO’s control and does not include 
compiling or procuring records, library or 
museum material made, acquired, or 
preserved solely for reference or exhibition 
purposes, or extra copies of documents 
preserved only for convenience of 
reference. 
     (c) "Records available to the public" 
means records which may be examined or 
copied or of which copies may be obtained, 
in accordance with this part, by the public 
or representatives of the press regardless 
of interest and without specific justification. 
     (d) "Disclose or disclosure" means 
making available for examination or 
copying or furnishing a copy. 
     (e) "Person" includes an individual, 
partnership, corporation, association, or 
public or private organization other than a 
federal agency. 
     (f) “Compelling need” means that a 
failure to obtain requested records on an 
expedited basis could reasonably be 
expected to pose an imminent threat to the 
life or physical safety of an individual, or the 
records are needed urgently, with respect 
to a request made by a person primarily 
engaged in disseminating information, for 
the requester to inform the public 
concerning actual or alleged Federal 
Government activity. 
 
§ 81.4  Requests for identifiable records. 
     (a) A request to inspect or obtain a copy 
of an identifiable record of GAO must be 
submitted in writing to the Chief Quality 
Officer, U.S. Government Accountability 
Office, 441 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 
20548.  Requests also may be emailed to 
recordsrequest@gao.gov.  The Chief 
Quality Officer will either acknowledge or 
honor the request within 20 days of receipt.  
     (b) The Chief Quality Officer will honor 
requests for expedited processing before all 
other requests in cases in which the person 
requesting the records demonstrates a 
compelling need.  A demonstration of 
compelling need shall be made by a 
statement certified by the requester to be 
true and correct to the best of the 
requester’s knowledge and belief. 
     (c) In the event of an objection or doubt 
as to the propriety of providing the 
requester with a copy of the record sought, 
every effort will be made to resolve such 
problems as quickly as possible, including 
consultation with appropriate GAO 
elements.  If it is determined that the record 
should be withheld, the Chief Quality 

4 CFR Ch. 1 (10-1-16 Edition)1 

from 

its 

files 

Officer shall inform the requester in writing 
that the request has been denied, shall 
identify the material withheld, and shall 
explain the basis for the denial. 
     (d) A person whose request is denied in 
whole or part may administratively appeal 
the denial within 60 days after the date of 
the denial by submitting a letter to the 
Comptroller General of the United States at 
the address listed in paragraph (a) of this 
section, explaining why the denial of the 
request was unwarranted. 
 
§ 81.5  Records originating outside 
GAO, records of interviews, or records 
involving work in progress. 
     (a) It is the policy of GAO not to provide 
records 
that  originate  in 
another  agency  or  nonfederal  organization 
to  persons  who  may  not  be  entitled  to 
obtain  the  records  from  the  originator.  In 
such  instances,  requesters  will  be  referred 
to the person or organization that originated 
the records. 
     (b) It is the policy of GAO that prior to 
the release of a record of interview created 
by GAO in connection with an audit, 
evaluation, or investigation of a program, 
activity, or funding of a government entity, 
GAO will notify the agency from which an 
interview was obtained of the request. GAO 
will provide that agency with a reasonable 
opportunity to indicate whether the record 
of interview or portions thereof should be 
exempt from disclosure and the reason(s) 
for the exemption. The public disclosure of 
a record of interview remains within the 
discretion of GAO's Chief Quality Officer, 
but GAO will consider the views of the 
agency and the exemptions provided for 
under § 81.6 or any other law or regulation 
in deciding whether to release all or 
portions of a record of interview  
     (c) In order to avoid disruption of work in 
progress, and in the interests of fairness to 
those  who  might  be  adversely  affected  by 
the  release  of  information  which  has  not 
been  fully  reviewed  to  assure  its  accuracy 
and  completeness,  it  is  the  policy  of  GAO 
not  to  provide  records  which  are  part  of 
ongoing  reviews  or  other  current  projects. 
In  response  to  such  requests,  GAO  will 
inform 
the  estimated 
completion date of the review or project so 
that  the  requester  may  then  ask  for  the 
records.  At  that  time,  the  records  may  be 
released  unless  exempt  from  disclosure 
under § 81.6. 
 
§ 81.6  Records which may be exempt 
from disclosure. 
     The public disclosure of GAO records 
contemplated by this part does not apply to 
records, or parts thereof, within any of the 
categories listed below.  Unless precluded 
by law, the Chief Quality Officer may 
nevertheless release records within these 
categories: 

the  requester  of 

     (a) Records relating to work performed 
in response to a congressional request 
(unless authorized by the congressional 
requester), congressional correspondence, 
and congressional contact memoranda. 
     (b) Records specifically required by an 
Executive Order to be kept secret in the 
interest of national defense or foreign 
policy.  An example of this category is a 
record classified under Executive Order 
12958, Classified National Security 
Information. 
     (c) Records related solely to the internal 
personnel rules and practices of an agency. 
This category includes, in addition to 
internal matters of personnel 
administration, internal rules and practices 
which cannot be disclosed without 
prejudice to the effective performance of an 
agency function.  Examples within the 
purview of this exemption are guidelines 
and procedures for auditors, investigators, 
or examiners, and records concerning an 
agency’s security practices or procedures. 
     (d) Records specifically exempted from 
disclosure by statute provided that such 
statute (1) requires that the matters be 
withheld from the public in such a manner 
as to leave no discretion on the issue or (2) 
establishes particular criteria for withholding 
or refers to particular types of matters to be 
withheld. 
     (e) Records containing trade secrets 
and commercial or financial information 
obtained from a person and are privileged 
or confidential.  This exemption may 
include, but is not limited to, business sales 
statistics, inventories, customer lists, 
scientific or manufacturing processes, or 
development information. 
     (f) Personnel and medical files and 
similar files the disclosure of which could 
constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of 
personal privacy.  This exemption excludes 
from disclosure all personnel and medical 
files, and all private or personal information 
contained in other files, which, if disclosed 
to the public, would amount to a clearly 
unwarranted invasion of the privacy of any 
person.  An example of such other files 
within the exemption would be files 
compiled to evaluate candidates for 
security clearance. 
     (g) Records compiled for law 
enforcement purposes that originate in 
another agency, or records provided by 
GAO to another agency for law 
enforcement purposes. 
     (h) Records having information 
contained in or related to examination, 
operation, or condition reports prepared by, 
on behalf of, or for the use of an agency 
responsible for the regulation or supervision 
of financial institutions. 
     (i) Records containing geological and 
geophysical information and data (including 
maps) concerning wells. 
     (j) Inter-agency or intra-agency 

memorandums, letters, or other materials 
that are part of the deliberative process.  
For example, this exemption includes 
internal communications such as GAO or 
other agency draft reports and those 
portions of internal drafts, memoranda, and 
workpapers containing opinions, 
recommendations, advice, or evaluative 
remarks of GAO employees.  This 
exemption seeks to avoid the inhibiting of 
internal communications and the premature 
disclosure of documents which would be 
detrimental to an agency decision making. 
     (k) Records in addition to those 
described in paragraph (j) of this section 
containing information customarily subject 
to protection as privileged in a court or 
other proceedings, such as information 
protected by the doctor-patient, attorney-
work product, or lawyer-client privilege. 
     (l) Records GAO has obligated itself not 
to disclosed, including but not limited to, 
records for which GAO officials have made 
a pledge of confidentiality, and records the 
release of which would adversely impact 
significant property interests or negatively 
affect public safety.  
     (m) Unsolicited records containing 
information submitted by any person to 
GAO in confidence.  Records obtained by 
the GAO Forensic Audits and Special 
Investigations (GAO FraudNet) are an 
example of records that could contain 
information covered by this exemption. 
[68 FR 33832, June 6, 2003, as amended 
at 72 FR 50644, Sept. 4, 2007; 76 FR 
12549, Mar. 8, 2011] 
 
§ 81.7  Fees and charges. 
     (a) No fee or charge will be made for: 
     (1) Records provided under this part 
when the direct costs involve less than one 
hour of search time and 50 pages of 
photocopying.  
     (2) Staff-hours spent in resolving any 
legal or policy questions pertaining to the 
request. 
     (3) Copies of records, including those 
certified as true copies, furnished for official 
use to a federal government officer or 
employee. 
     (4) Copies of pertinent records furnished 
to a party having a direct and immediate 
interest in a matter pending before GAO, 
when necessary or desirable to the 
performance of a GAO function. 
     (b) The fees and charges described 
below will be assessed for the direct costs 
of search, review, and reproduction of 
records available to the public under this 
part. 
     (1) The cost for reproduction per page 
shall be 20 cents. 
     (2) The cost for a certification of 
authenticity shall be $10 for each 
certificate. 
     (3) Manual search and review for 
records by office personnel will be 

assessed at $12, $25, or $45 per hour, 
depending on the rate of pay of the 
individual actually conducting the search or 
review, and the complexity of the search. 
     (4) Other direct costs related to the 
request may be charged for such items as 
computer searches. 
     (5) Except as noted immediately below, 
requesters generally will be charged only 
for document duplication.  However, there 
may be times when a search charge will be 
added, for example, if records are not 
described with enough specificity to enable 
them to be located within one hour.  
Requesters seeking records for commercial 
use will be charged for document 
duplication, search, and review costs.  
Additionally, representatives of the news 
media, in support of a news gathering or 
dissemination function, and education or 
noncommercial scientific institutions not 
seeking records for commercial use will be 
charged only for document duplication, 
unless such request requires extraordinary 
search or review. 
     (c) GAO shall notify the requester if an 
advance deposit it required.  
     (d) Fees and charges shall be paid by 
check or money order payable to the U.S. 
Government Accountability Office. 
     (e) The Chief Quality Officer may waive 
or reduce the fees under this section upon 
a determination that disclosure of the 
records requested is in the public interest, 
is likely to contribute significantly to public 
understanding of the operations or activities 
of the government, and is not primarily in 
the commercial interest of the requester.  
Persons seeking such waiver or fee 
reduction may be required to submit a 
statement setting forth the intended 
purpose for which the records are 
requested, indicate how disclosure will 
primarily benefit the public and, in 
appropriate cases, explain why the volume 
of records requested is necessary.  
Determinations pursuant to this paragraph 
are solely within the discretion of GAO. 
[49 FR 38527, Oct. 1, 1984, as amended at 
53 FR 50913, Dec. 19, 1988] 
 
§ 81.8  Public reading facility. 
     GAO maintains a public reading facility 
in the Law Library at the Government 
Accountability Office Building, 441 G Street 
NW, Washington, DC.  To determine if a 
record is part of the public reading facility 
collection and to schedule an appointment 
to visit the facility, contact the Library 
reference desk at 202-512-2585.  The 
facility is open to the public from 8:30 a.m. 
to 4:00 p.m. except Saturdays, Sundays, 
and Federal holidays. 
[76 FR 12549, Mar. 8, 2011]  
 
1Noted changes will be made at a future 
date. 

